Spetember 18, 2009
AIJUN ZHANG

The skill assessment software has been updated. The major features implemented in the new version
are:

1. install skill assessment software in a common directory, mutiple users can run skill assessment for
   different applications from user's local directory but sharing same SA software at the same time. Therefore, it
   is much easier to maintain and update skill assessment software.
2. New functionalities and control parameters have been added as follows:  

The following features have been implemented for the new updated Version:

1). Error criteria X1
   
   Besides constant error criteria for all stations, the error criteria X1 can be
   calculated using percentage of tidal range if X1 is negative in the control file
   of "my_parameters.ctl".
   
   X1 = -X1 * Trange/100.

   where  Trange=MHW-MLW, MHW is height of mean high water, and MLW is height 
   of mean low water.

   Currently, this feature is implemented only for water level in tidal regions, 
   but similar approach can be easily applied to temperature and salinity using
   
   Trange = maximum - mimimum

2). offset adjustment (datum adjustment)

   Model forecasts (simulations) can be adjusted by the offfset (datum) between observations
   and model simulations for water level, temperature, and salinity before computing skill
   assessment statistics.
   The parameter "dirflood" in the station control file is used to specify the value of 
   the adjustment for each station. For the previous version, the parameter "dirflood" is not 
   used for a scalar variable (a dummy parameter for water level, temperature, and salinity). 
   Where for this new version, "dirflood" has to be zero in the staiton control file if you
   do not expect any adjustment.
   The offset may be a difference between observations and model outputs, or the datum offset 
   for water levels.

      dirflood= offset (observation - model forecast)
      
      model forecast=model firecast + dirflood
3). correspond with offset djustment, format of station control file is changed. The second line
   of each station contains, 
   
   "Latitude  Longitude  PCD/offset  observed_depth  total_water_depth"

     S01 TEMP_S1  "S1-outer Egmont Channel"     
     27.6135  -82.7655    0.0   1.8   3.63    

4). extend skill assessment for forecast duration from the previous 24 hours into a user specified length. 
   The maximum forecast duration for skill assessment is currently set to be 5 days. This parameter 
   is specified in my_parameters.ctl by parameter "NFDURATION". 


5). incorporate ROMS standard station NetCDF outputs from tidal, hindcast, nowcast/forecast simulations.
   The previous version can only handle NOS's standard station NetCDF outputs (under COMF), this updated 
   version of skill assessment software can handle both NOS standard station NetCDF files and original 
   ROMS standard station NetCDF outputs. subroutines to read ROMS standard station NetCDF outputs 
   have been implemented. Currently, only ROMS standard sigma coordinate formula (using theta_s, 
   theta_b, Tcline, hc) is implemented. Lyon's sigma coordinate formula has not been implemented yet.

6). Adding a new parameter "TZ_MODEL" for time meridian adjustment of model outputs if time of model output 
   is not in GMT/UTC. TZ_MODEL=0 if model output is in GMT; TZ_MODEL=75 if time of model output is in standard 
   eastern time. 

   This new version has been tested using one-month outputs from the operational SJROFS at CO-OPS, 
   and tidal and hindcast simulations from TBOFS ROMS experimental runs.


  
